1st process flow (Pre sales- RFQs/RFP)
1. client called/requested for a service
Sales/mgt to check with finance on the status of customer.  
Sales/mgt will liaise with tech team. Tech team to decide on the next technical action to take.

4. tech team to coordinate with sales and fill up a BOM (bill of material)
5. Sales team to liaise with procurement team for supplier price checking and availability.  
6. Sales team to go to quotations list file and create quotation. (include here how to create quotation no.)
7. Create a client folder in either Manila or Cebu or Davao and create a pricing template with the quotation no. as the file name, then create a pricing template to word quotation and convert to pdf format
8. Send pricing template/word doc/pdf to sales mgmt team for approval. 
9. Sales to send quote/proposal to customer's email or viber or customers' preferred channel.
10. Sale Log to quotation tracker for follow-up.
11. Sale to update pipeline reporting.

2nd process flow (Post Sales-Quote/Proposal approved):
1. Mgt/sales to forward signed quote/proposal to Finance team for customer status verification.
	Prepare payables template to request for budget:
	Customer name:
	Supplier's PO no.:
	Quote no and name: (ex.Q2026-001-001-641 Manu Siy San Juan Batangas deployment of CCTV Camera)
	Supplier name:
	Amt:
	Bank/s name
	Bank account no.
2. Once cleared, finance team to disperse amount as based on terms agreement.
3. Finance team to advise procurement to start sourcing process.
4. Procurement will start the sourcing process
5. Sourcing process: check the existing suppliers/subcontractors for latest pricing and availability. Procurement to advise sales/mgmt if there are changes on the pricing and status of availability. to proceed to 1st process #8.
7. Procurement will take a screenshot of the payment and post it in Cliqueha Costing
8. Procurement will send the proof of payment to the supplier to initiate the delivery process.

3rd Process flow (Deployment phase)
1. Procurement will coordinate and arrange the ordering and delivering of the items with the supplier and inform Sales team on the status.
2. Procurement and tech team will be in charge of the equipment receipt in the office checking the correct quantity and details as based on order. 
3. Tech team  to check the items received if they are in good order and record the following in the Procurement client inventory file. 
4. Tech team to log the equipment details such as serial numbers and such for customer asset tagging.
5. Tech team to advise procurement team for delivery or deployment status.  
6. Tech team to advise sales for delivery or deployment completion status.
7. Sales team to liaise with customer on the delivery or deployment status and to follow up on pending payments.. 
7. Sales to update finance team regarding the status of the order.
8. Finance/Sales team to update AR/AP sheet for pending receivable payments and AP to suppliers.
9. Sales team to update pipelines and sales tracking reports.



